let us take this array and calculate the minimum number
of jumps required to reach the end index
To solve this we need to create one more array
see jumps In this jump array we will find and stored
the minimum number of jumps to reach each index
For example in index zero we will find and store
the minimum number of jumps required to reach index zero
in index three
We will find and stored the minimum number of jumps
required to reach index three and so on simply
Each index will have one sub problem solution and using
that solution we will solve another sub problem and finally
we will arrive at the overall optimal solution
so let us Solve each sub problem one by one to reach
index zero we don't need any jumps so simply fill
jumps of zero as one
Next is index one to find a minimum number of
jumps for index one First we need to figure out
all the possible ways to reach Index one and there
is only one way that is from index zero
So keep another variable J at index zero here
What we need to check is can we reached Index I
from J with array of J steps that is can
we reached
Index one from index zero with array of J
That is two steps yes we can from index zero
We can take two steps that is we can reach
the index up to two
Our target index one is within this range so we
can move from index
0 to 1 with one jump so mark jumps of one as one
It simply means we can reach index one from the
beginning of the array with just one jump
Now let us calculate for index two what are all
the possible ways to reach index two We can reach
index to either from index zero or from index
one so we need to check both the Indices in general
to find results for index I we need to check
All previous indices that is index zero to i
minus one
So J will we iterated from zero to i
minus
1th index Now keep J at index zero and from
index zero can we reached index two with two steps
Zero plus two is two which is greater than or
equal to two
So index two is reachable from Index
Zero so mark jumps of two as one
Next move J to index one and check from index
one can we reached index to with three steps
One plus three is four which is greater than or
equal to two so index two is reachable from index
one
Here we are reaching index two from index one
Our problems statement is to find a minimum number of
jumps to reach the end of the array from the beginning
index
So here it takes one step to reach index two
from index one here
We also need to consider how many steps are required
to reach index one
We have already found that the minimum number of steps
to reach Index one is one so we need to
add that as well
So in this way it takes two jumps to reach
index two that is one jump for index 0 to
1 and another one jump for index 1 to 2
But we already found that from Index zero we can
reach index two with one jump which is lesser than
two
So this is not an optimal result so we can
leave it
So whenever we find a minimum jump we need to
update it
Otherwise we can skip it
So jumps of two remains one
That is the minimum number of jumps required to reach
index two is one
Now let us calculate for index three so move I
to index three and move J to index zero can
we reached Index three from Index zero two is not
greater than or equal to three so we cannot
move J to index one can we reach index three
from index one Yes since three is greater than or
equal to three
So we can make one jump to reach index three
from index one and minimum number of jumps to reach
index one is one
So one plus one is equal to two
So mark jumps of three
As two now from index two we can make one
jump to reach index three and to reach index two
we need minimum one jump
So one plus one equal to two which is not
less than the previous minimum
So no need to update now for index four start
from index zero we cannot reach index four from index
zero with two steps now from index one we can
make three steps maximum so we can reach index four
in one jump and to reach index one we need
one jump at least so total one plus one equal
to two so
jumps of four is equal to two now from index
two we cannot reach index four now Check Index three
And with one jump we can reach index four and
we need two jumps minimum to reach index three
So total jumps equal to one plus two that is three
which is not less than the previous minimum
So we do not need to update it and we
got a final result
The minimum number of jumps needed to reach the end is two.